ACHIEVE 3.0 DEVELOPMENT INSTRUCTIONS

This repository contains the active Achieve 3.0 development version,
3.0.0-dev.0. It is not yet the stable npm release.

REQUIREMENTS

Install Node.js 22 or newer. Use a currently supported even-numbered LTS
release for production. Node.js 24 LTS is the preferred current choice for new
installations and development. Achieve has no runtime dependencies.

STARTING THE DEVELOPMENT SERVER

From the repository directory, run:

    node start.js

start.js configures examples/ as the application directory and starts HTTP on
port 8989. It uses paths relative to the repository and contains no
machine-specific application path.

Thin convenience launchers are also available:

    runw.bat       Windows
    sh runl.sh     Unix-like systems

Then open:

    http://localhost:8989/

The root page links to executable examples that show how Achieve works. A basic first
confirmation is:

    http://localhost:8989/confirm/

APPLICATIONS AND SERVLETS

Achieve resolves requests within the configured application directory.
Static HTML, CSS, browser JavaScript, images, and other resources are served
normally.

Achieve uses the server project's root directory as its default application
directory. Use setAppPath(...) to specify a different application directory.
URL directories such as /accounting, /images, and /servlets are ordinary
directories inside that one application.

The .jss marker identifies protected Achieve server-side source. Bare .jss is
the simple CommonJS servlet form. Use .jss.cjs to label CommonJS explicitly,
or .jss.mjs for an ES module servlet. Servlet source is executed on the server
and is never served as static content. Extensionless requests remain
compatible with legacy .js servlets.

Ordinary .js, .cjs, and .mjs files in the public application tree do not have
.jss protection and are served as JavaScript resources. Servlet code can use
session.loadCJS() for protected .jss/.jss.cjs modules and await
session.loadESM() for protected .jss.mjs modules. The legacy session.load()
CommonJS helper remains available.

BUFFERED POST INPUT

Achieve buffers JSON and form-urlencoded POST input, including legacy POST
input without a Content-Type. The default limit is 1 MiB. Applications that
need another limit should call setBufferedInputLimit(bytes) during startup,
before listen(). Other declared media types remain live request streams owned
by the servlet application.

EXAMPLES

The examples/ directory is executable documentation for developers and
students. The ordinary server provides confirmation, GET, HEAD, POST, and
media examples from its landing page.

Two examples use focused launchers because they require their own server
configuration:

    node examples/conditional/server.js
        open http://localhost:8991/

    node examples/application_directory/server.js
        open http://localhost:8990/

The conditional example enables caching and compression. The application
directory example shows setAppPath() selecting one application containing an
ordinary nested directory.

ENGINEERING TESTS

The tests/ directory contains regression verification, protocol assertions,
edge cases, intentionally broken servlets, and support fixtures. It is not the
ordinary beginner application served by start.js.

Representative areas include:

    cache/         ETag/cache validation
    conditional/   exact conditional and media protocol verification
    redirect/      directory redirects
    media/         engineering-only and local large-media cases
    helper/        servlet helper loading and error propagation
    jss/           servlet routing, reload, precedence, and .jss source protection
    application_directory/   default and configured application-directory verification

The jss/ tree deliberately contains invalid or incomplete servlet modules for
syntax-error, runtime-error, missing-export, reload-recovery, and
source-protection checks. They are regression fixtures, not accidental broken
files.

The large video formerly used for full media/Range testing is local-only and
is excluded from Git. Supply a local media file at the ignored path described
in tests/README_TESTS.txt when that large-file regression is needed. No media
download is required for the remaining repository tests.

See tests/README_TESTS.txt for additional details.
